[TRENTEMQLLER'S
"SYCAMORE FEELING" PLAYING]
Is your heart in need?
[CROWD CHATTERING]
Wanna see spring
Unfold your beliefs
Is it coming on ?
Fade in the dark
Magnificent.
Gustav Klimt. From his Vienna years.
It's in excellent condition.
The previous owners
took great care in its handling.
And the thieves who stole it
from the owners last week?
Those gentlemen are very meticulous.
Rest assured, we don't consort
with garden-variety criminals.
We only represent the elite.
All works for sale come complete
with forged provenance papers.
And if art isn't your fancy,
we have goods in the back.
Guns? Black-market technology?
Oh, I'm not the buyer. My employer is.
I'd like to introduce you to him. Mr. White.
-Angela.
-Hello.
Be back in a minute.
Okay, Angela's office
is in the southeast corner.
-[OVER COMM] Did you get her phone?
-Yes.
It'll transmit an encrypted IR code
that'll get you...
...past the security reader.
Owen, buy her time.
-Copy.
-Excuse me?
Um....
-These are copies, right?
-Of course not.
What kind of operation
do you think this is?
Realizing why Percy gave him a job
that required no human interaction.
Owen, get it back. Compliment her.
Clearly one of a kind, just--
Just like your dress.
[ANGELA CHUCKLES]
ANGELA: Thanks.
-Nikita, you'd better hustle.
Don 't know how long
Owen can keep this up.
NIKITA:
Almost there.
[LOCK CLICKS]
Safe's in the floor.
-Two minutes.
MICHAEL: Acknowledged.
Two minutes. How's Owen doing?
Like a puppy trying to catch a butterfly.
--which is why I've always loved
Chinese food.
No. You're losing her.
Engage. Ask her a question.
You want to, um...?
You want to grab dinner sometime?
No, no. Don't ask her that.
Let me check my schedule.
[OWEN STAMMERS]
Um, can you tell me more
about this painting?
Um, I think I could-- I could make a deal--
Nikita, time's up.
[LOCK CLICKS]
NIKITA: I'm in.
BIRKHOFF [OVER COMM]: Okay.
Looking for a flash drive.
-My phone is missing. Do a sweep.
-All units, lockdown protocols.
Locking down.
Owen, be prepared to exfil by force.
NIKITA:
I'm so sorry.
I ran into a rather tiresome countess
I haven't seen since Art Basel Miami. Ha, ha.
Bonng,bonng.
Um, I did find this in the ladies' room.
Do I leave it with you, or—-?
Thank you, it's mine.
-Mr. White, we do have that engagement.
-Yes, of course.
[BIRKHOFF SIGHS]
-Nice shirt.
-I know it got a little rough.
Contact, engage, escalate.
Make contact with the subject,
engage their attention, escalate their interest.
-lt's Tradecraft 101.
-We got it, didn't we?
-That is not the point.
-We know that Owen...
-...has no experience working undercover.
-Which is why we practiced for this.
What happened to "Any mission you
walk away from is a good mission"?
[SCOFFS]
If our source is correct, and Angela
is working with the Dirty Thirty...
...then Birkhoff's gonna find
a lot of goodies on this, right?
Would it be insensitive
if I gave him the finger?
He's just frustrated.
Oh, great. I get to be his chew toy.
Michael and I had a way of doing things
when we were in the field.
Can't be easy for him
watching someone take his place.
The myoelectrics look good.
I adjusted the feedback sensors.
Should give you more sensitivity.
MICHAEL:
Thanks.
Can you get satellite TV on that thing?
I'm missing the Redskins game.
What are you doing here?
Heard there was a man down.
Had to make sure he was okay.
I appreciate the sentiment.
Heard you been sleeping here.
Don't you want to go home?
It's just been easier
being close to Medical.
SEAN: I know a lot of soldiers
who've been through this.
They say the best thing to do is to get back
to a normal routine as fast as possible.
I know.
Some of them don't get it.
But I do.
It's time to move on.
Have you seen Dr. Lester?
I need him to....
-Hi.
-What are you doing here?
You guys all need to work
on your greeting skills.
Um, I'm here to see Michael.
Sorry to interrupt. I better go.
Oh.
I gotta go see Birkhoff.
Look, you haven't seen her in,
what, a month?
If she hasn't come around yet...
...then maybe you should let it go.
MICHAEL: What do you got?
-Flash drive Nikki stole from the gallery...
...Ied us to another one
of our wayward souls.
Couple weeks ago, Angela took in a shipment
of stolen military tech from China.
According to her records,
the seller was....
MICHAEL:
Ray.
I remember him.
He taught our SERE class.
-SERE?
-Survival, evasion, resistance, escape.
What to do
when you're stuck in enemy territory.
So he has a military background.
BIRKHOFF:
Two tours in the Gulf.
Dishonorably discharged
when he came home.
Chopped up some dude with an ax.
He thought the guy was tapping his wife.
-Bought himself a ticket to death row.
-From there to Division.
Here's the funny thing, though.
He didn't take money for the stolen tech.
-He traded it.
-Traded it for what?
Bunch of stuff.
Some basics, rifles, ammunitions.
Some a little more exotic,
like shock-sensitive shaped charges.
The type of thing you'd find
in antitank missiles, land mines.
Target could be anything, anywhere.
Or anyone.
Why would I be lying?
DECKER:
Not saying you're lying.
I'm telling you, I saw Ray.
He was watching me.
[DECKER SIGHS]
Couldn't--? Couldn't you be imagining it?
You know howjumpy you get.
But what about the phone calls at night?
-Wrong number.
-Jason, it's his voice. It's him.
-He's following me.
DECKER: You know that's not possible.
Your ex-husband was a lot of things,
but he's not a ghost.
Hi, Kate.
[KATE SCREAMS]
Kate! Listen to me! Listen to me.
Listen to me. Everything's fine.
I'll explain everything soon.
But we gotta go.
[G RU NTS]
You have no idea
how long I've been waiting for this.
I'm back, baby.
NIKITA:
80 Ray was here?
BIRKHOFF [OVER COMM]: Police reports say
an intruder broke in last night.
Prints at the scene
were inconclusive for them...
...but not for ShadowBot.
It was Ray for sure.
What did he do?
BIRKHOFF:
Kidnapped a woman, shot her boyfriend.
An off-duty Pennsylvania state trooper
lucky enough to be wearing his vest.
According to his report,
he never got a clean look at the shooter.
-Who's the woman?
BIRKHOFF: Kate Barrett, Ray's ex-wife.
NIKITA [OVER COMM]:
What do we know about her?
Married Ray in Texas in '04. After he
Lizzie Bordened that dude and went to prison...
...she petitioned for a divorce.
Moved to Philadelphia.
She's been laying low ever since.
NIKITA: No old photos. Anywhere.
-She's trying to leave her previous life behind.
This is good.
Means we have a shot at keeping this quiet.
Heh. I don't think so. Young woman taken
from the arms of her cop boyfriend...
...by her supposedly dead husband?
People magazine, a cover for you.
If this story blows up,
questions will be asked.
Questions that lead to Division.
We won't let that happen.
Or what? Am I missing something?
If people find out Ray's death was faked,
Division could be exposed.
The president has told us
that she won't allow that. Meaning--
Division gets wiped out.
Yeah. I'm a cleaner.
I know how these things work.
-What are you doing here?
-FB|.
The men told me. What I wanna know is
what the feds want at a local crime scene.
-Who are you?
-Lieutenant Jason Decker...
...Pennsylvania State Police.
BIRKHOFF:
That's the boyfriend, the one who got shot.
We believe your suspect
is someone we've been hunting.
He's wanted in the abductions
of several women, all in different states.
I don't think so. I know who did this.
You do?
Kate told me her ex-husband
has been stalking her.
You're mistaken.
We've gone through the file.
Miss Barrett's ex-husband was executed
by the state of Texas six years ago.
I know, that's what I've been telling her.
But some mistake must have been made.
A misidentification.
Clerical error. She told me he'd been
following her, calling her at home.
She probably was being followed,
just not by who she thought.
This is not uncommon. She's been through
a traumatic experience in the past.
Now that this threat has come up,
her mind jumps to the thing that scares her.
Her ex-husband.
I don't know....
You were shot during the attack.
Took three in the vest, right?
-Yeah.
-What are you still doing on the case?
-I was placed on administrative leave.
-You shouldn't even be here.
[OVER COMM]
Right?
-She's my girlfriend.
-If you're suggesting...
...we look for a dead man,
you're clearly not of much use.
Perhaps you're right about your suspect.
MICHAEL: All right, you got him off the scent.
But keep him close.
We don't need him
talking about his theory to anyone else.
We need someone to help us
coordinate with the state police.
And you Obviously know this case
better than anyone.
Officially,
you'd be a special advisor to the FBI.
It'll keep you in the hunt.
[JOHNNY CASH'S "| WALK THE LINE"
PLAYING ON STEREO]
[keep a Close watch on this heart of mine
I keep my eyes wide....
How is this possible? How are you here?
It's a long story. Butjust know--
Know that I was serving my country.
I never wanted to leave you. Ever.
I didn't have a choice.
The people that recruited me,
they wouldn't let me contact anybody.
-Ray, you've gotta let me go.
-What?
I don't know where you've been
or how you're here...
...but that part of my life
ended a long time ago.
You don't understand.
It'll be exactly like it used to be.
Like it used to be?
Like when you'd threaten to kill me
if I looked at another guy?
-|'ve changed. I can prove it.
-StOp the car.
You're not listening to me.
I did this for you.
I did all Of this, everything.
-Okay.
-For you.
Michael looks good.
-Considering.
-He's getting better.
And Nikita? How's she?
Okay. It's been rough on her.
Well, it's hard to watch
someone you care about get hurt.
Yeah, it is.
Good thing she's tough enough to handle it.
Some people would have just bailed.
-Is that what you think I did?
-You made an ultimatum.
-Then headed for the hills.
SEAN: An ultimatum?
That's what you got out of that?
-Most people would have--
-Most people would have what?
-Left when it got too tough?
SEAN: I didn't leave anyone.
It was the only way
to get you to understand.
I was thinking of you, of your safety.
-By running from the fight?
SEAN: You're not hearing me.
I've never run from a fight in my life.
Until you left Division.
-Where are we going?
-I just need to collect a few things.
I'm hungry.
Can I get a pop?
Just stay where I can see you.
[BEEPING]
Well, hello, hello.
YO, Mikey.
Our missing chica's ATM card
was just used...
...at a storage facility
in western Pennsylvania.
-Can you get me eyes?
-Security cams online.
He's taking off.
There's only one road
away from that facility.
No way on or off it for a while.
If he makes it to the highway, though...
-...we could lose him in the traffic.
-Can we send a team, cut him off?
He'll make the highway in 20 minutes.
Fastest we could get a team out there
is half an hour, minimum.
Nikita, we found Ray.
He's on an access road near Brookville.
Only in 20 minutes,
we'll lose him on the interstate.
We can't scramble another team in time.
You and Owen are Closest to the scene.
We'll never get there.
-You're gonna clue in the cops?
MICHAEL: Can't let them get to Ray.
It's one thing if we scrub records,
it's another if a dead inmate...
...is sitting in front Of the authorities
in the flesh.
But the state troopers are the only ones
with the resources to close that road in time.
We need them.
Lieutenant.
[DECKER SPEAKS INDISTINCTLY]
We need you to set up a roadblock.
You have access to a chopper, right?
TROOPER: We set up roadblocks,
but he never reached them.
-We closed in and found his car here.
-Any other vehicles go through?
TROOPER: No.
-Anyone approach it?
-They've been told to wait for you.
-Wait here till we signal you.
Once we get Ray,
we gotta keep him out of sight.
-Where are they?
-Could he have doubled back on foot?
Troopers would have seen them.
We got a car, no Ray.
What's Ray's training in again?
Survival expert.
Percy used him for missions...
-...in hostile environments. Deserts, jungles.
-Forests?
Nikita, Ray was not on that road
to get to another destination.
[OVER COMM]
That road was his destination.
Here? Why?
MICHAEL:
Because...
...he's in the woods.
Allegheny National Forest.
Half a million acres
spread out across two states.
-Police begin a search in the morning.
-Heh. Ask them if they can also find...
...the Boba Fett figure I lost in second grade.
They got about as much chance of...
...finding that. Ahem.
Tree canopy
makes satellite imaging useless.
-What about thermal?
BIRKHOFF: Sure.
-If you wanna check out every bear.
MICHAEL: This is Ray's home turf.
He can survive there indefinitely,
which is why he was stocking up on supplies.
Actually, Owen versus bear
would be pretty sweet.
We do have one lead. Birkhoff analyzed
the phone calls made from Kate's phone.
A few of them pinged off
a cell tower near the area.
The tower's coverage radius
intersects part of the forest.
-That narrows our search area.
-Which gives us the jump on the police.
You two are the lead team.
Alpha Two runs support.
But the priority remains the same.
Get Ray, and get him first.
You came on too strong with Decker.
Nikita hooked him, you almost lost him.
-But we didn't.
-It's not always about the immediate.
When you work a cover,
it's about leaving no questions behind.
-Anything else?
-Yeah. Your diction could use work.
Michael.
My father trained me in forest survival.
I could lead the support team.
Help navigate.
-You're still benched.
-I am on track with my rehab.
-I know you could use the help.
-Already covered.
-Anything from the maps?
-Guy's got SERE training?
He'll want an area with clear sight lines,
probably on higher ground.
Long-term,
he'll need access to fresh water.
Okay. Team Two is gearing up.
You leave at first light.
-What are you doing?
-I'm joining the fight.
Sit and watch.
Hey. You've been
pretty tough on Owen lately.
No, he's making it tough on himself.
He has good instincts. He'll be fine.
I know it's hard for you
not being out there yourself.
But you'll be cleared for action soon.
In the meantime,
maybe you find another punching bag?
This isn't personal.
It's about making sure Owen's ready.
Ready for what?
Look, you know as well as I do...
...when you're out there,
things can turn on a dime.
When that happens, you need
absolute trust in the skills of the person...
-...who has your back.
-And Owen can be that guy.
Good, because I can't.
Nikita, I'm not going back into the field.
This.... This may be good enough
for someone who wants to drive again...
...Or use a fork and knife in a restaurant.
For what we do, it is not good enough.
It is nowhere near good enough.
-Michael, you're just frustrated.
-No.
This is not frustration. Things have changed.
And I accept that.
But it is why I need to make sure
Owen is ready for this job.
He's your partner now.
NIKITA:
Birkhoff.
There has to be something better.
-What?
-Michael's hand.
That's a training model, right?
Something to get him used to the system until,
I don't know, something better.
There is no better.
That's it.
Look, Michael came to me
with the same question.
I had to give him the same answer.
He didn't like it, but he accepted it.
Maybe you should too.
Hey.
It's okay.
Come on.
Did you build this?
Started it the day I got free of my...
...government commitment.
I cleared out a space for you over here.
No phones, no, um....
No computers.
Oh, don't wander outside.
I set up some-- Some deterrents.
Don't want anybody sticking their noses
in our business, right?
I'll show you where they are later on...
...so you can walk around.
But, uh....
I gotta take care of some stuff.
[KATE SCREAMS]
DECKER:
The other kidnapped women...
...what happened to them?
NIKITA:
They haven't been found yet.
DECKER:
Is there a pattern with the victims?
Well, his profile suggests...
...that he's trying to regain something
he lost a long time ago.
Why do people have so much trouble
letting go of the past?
-Because it reminds them of better times?
DECKER: Not always.
Kate...
...she went through a horrible experience
with Ray and it haunts her.
She couldn't let it go.
I should have helped her.
Sometimes no matter how much
you want to help someone...
...you just can't.
Come on, time to go.
BIRKHOFF:
The troopers are clearing the first zone now.
Where's Sean's team?
Sweeping the area closer to the cell tower.
Punji trap.
He's set booby traps.
[OVER COMM]
Tell Nikita to be careful.
Guys, the target left behind
a few unwanted presents for us.
-[OVER COMM] Keep your eyes peeled.
-Copy.
Division.
All units be advised...
...central command
has designated current...
...search and rescue a closed operation.
Only ofﬁcial PSP personnel
have ground clearance.
What about the FBI already on the case?
Command is unaware
of any authorized federal agents.
Let me see that map again.
[WHISPERS INDISTINCTLY]
What field office
did you say you were from?
-Philly.
DECKER: Right.
[OVER COMM]
And who’s the SAC over there?
You know people at the Bureau?
Yeah. A few.
I'm on it.
Special agent in charge in Philadelphia is...
...Javier Fernandez.
Well, I will tell Javi that you said hello.
I think there's something to be learned...
...from those past kidnappings.
Why don't we go back to HQ
and you can show me those case files?
That's a good idea.
Although I don't think we have time for that.
I think we do.
[ALL GRUNTING]
Move!
[GUNFIRE]
Come on!
-Ops, Nikita. We're clear.
-What the hell happened?
NIKITA:
We had to get out of there.
No, no. You were doing fine,
until Owen started decking cops.
-There was a situation--
-That we were defusing.
-It wasn't working. I had to make a move.
-It was the right call.
[SIGHS]
Well, you're dead to the cops now,
and Ray's on alert.
[OVER COMM] Now get back here
so we can sort out this mess.
If he doesn't get off my case,
I'll take his other hand.
Believe me, he's thinking about you.
I know what he's thinking of me.
No, I mean he's hard on you for a reason.
He wants you to be good enough for me.
He's not coming back, Owen.
Not to field work.
He says you're my partner now.
Forgood.
And he wants you to be ready for that.
Hey.
He's trying to do the right thing.
All he's doing...
...is leaving behind his life as an agent.
That's it.
What if that's not all he's leaving behind?
I can't look at another tree.
This must be what squirrels feel like.
He's gotta have a structure in there,
even if it's a tent.
But this guy's whole mojo
is about making himself invisible.
If he had time to set those traps,
you know he took his time hiding his base.
Yeah, but how much time?
Birkhoff, can you call up a satellite image
of the forest from six months ago?
Okay. Can your imaging software
look for any changes in the terrain?
There was a clearing, northwest corner.
Not there anymore. It's all trees now.
What kind of trees
grow like that in six months?
Camouflage.
Birkhoff, send the coordinates to Sean.
Nikita, we have a possible bearing
on Ray's base. Can you and Owen...
-...turn around and meet with Sean?
-Almost there.
You are? I told you to return.
We're better prepped on Ray's profile
than the other team.
They're undermanned. I changed the call.
Sometimes you gotta do that in the field.
Let me know when you find Sean.
Bastard.
What have we got?
Some kind of bunker. Over that rise.
You see Ray?
No. No sign of the girl, either.
Oh. Sean, Owen. Owen, Sean.
From what I heard,
I thought you'd be bigger.
Really? I didn't know what you'd look like...
...because, well,
nobody ever talks about you.
All right. Let's move on.
Where's your team?
Far side, covering the flank.
Red One, get me recon.
[G RU NTS]
-I lost Jensen.
-We lost Jensen's signal.
Checking.
[AGENT GRUNTS]
Nikita, you're under attack.
I repeat, you are under attack!
Red Three,
meet me at the previous waypoint.
Eyes on the bunker.
Wait, stop! Don't move!
No!
Sean? Sean!
TECHNICIAN:
Agents down.
Come on.
[OWEN GRUNTS]
NIKITA:
Owen! Owen?
[GUNFIRE]
NIKITA:
You okay? Your armor caught it.
-Can you move?
-Yeah.
NIKITA:
Owen is mobile. We ’re heading for Sean.
Sean?
-Dead?
-Alive. But he needs medical attention.
MICHAEL:
We can airlift him out in half an hour.
Another problem.
We heard police chatter.
They heard the explosion.
They're on their way.
-|'|| go after Ray.
-You can't even take a deep breath.
You're staying with Sean.
Take cover. I'll go after Ray.
Not by yourself.
If you hadn't noticed, he just kicked our ass.
He took us by surprise.
-Nikita--
-Look, you wanna have my back?
Watch out for the people I care about.
That includes you.
Okay.
NIKITA:
Kate. Kate, wake up.
-Where's Ray?
-WhO are you?
I'm here to help.
But I need to know where Ray is.
-I don't know, I don't know.
NIKITA: I wanna get you out of here.
Can you get under the bed,
wait for my signal?
-Yeah, yeah.
NIKITA: All right.
[KATE GASPS]
[NIKITA & RAY GRUNTING]
No!
[NIKITA YELLS]
KATE:
Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
[KATE SOBBING]
It's okay. It's over.
Kate.
Kate, the cops are going
to be here very soon.
I'm not with them.
I'm with the government.
I can't really explain what happened here,
but if you tell people Ray was alive...
...it's going to raise questions,
questions without answers.
Understand?
Your boyfriend, he's waiting for you.
He wants a life together...
...and if you want that too--
And I think you do.
--you can have it.
But you've gotta forget about Ray.
All of this.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
Yeah.
-Yeah, I do.
-Okay.
Thank God.
Are you okay?
Yeah.
Where is he?
I don't know. He, um....
He left a while ago
and he never came back.
Place is clear.
DECKER:
Tell me the truth.
Was it Ray?
No.
Ray's dead.
Kate Barrett credited her quick rescue...
...to the efﬁciency and hard work
of Pennsylvania State Police.
As for the unidentiﬁed suspect
behind her abduction...
...he's yet to be apprehended.
[ON TV] But troopers did ﬁnd blood
and torn clothing in the area...
...leading them to believe
the suspect is injured...
...and quite possibly dead.
Blood and torn clothing?
Cleaning isn't just about
dissolving the bodies...
...it's leaving enough of a story behind
that folks don't ask questions.
-Well, good job.
-Yeah.
Not just about that. Uh....
Thank you for being there for Nikita.
Look, Michael.
We haven't been on the same page lately...
...but you should know something.
You never have to worry
about me protecting Nikita.
That's something I'll always do.
No thanks needed.
Well.
You guys make a good team.
What'd the doctor say?
Concussion.
I got some cuts and bruises, but I'll live.
Good.
I'm glad you think so.
Way things have been going
between us...
...I wasn't so sure.
I wanted you to make a choice.
Me or this place.
That's why I left.
How could I make a choice
when you were already gone?
-You could have called.
-You could have come back.
That's why I'm here.
Look.
What you said...
...about what most people would do?
Don't ever expect that from me.
Most people haven't seen their father
murdered before their eyes.
Most people aren't sold into slavery.
I'm not most people.
-Never have been.
-I know.
I know. I should have known that.
Yeah, you should have.
Are you angry?
Yes.
But not at you.
I can't do this. Not here.
Want a go-around?
I don't think so.
Your hand not ready?
No.
Aren't you the guy who once told me...
...that you could take me with just one arm?
One arm behind my back.
It's your funeral.
[NIKITA GRUNTS]
Nice try.
If you don't want to be out in the field
anymore, that's fine.
Owen's ready to be my partner.
And I've worked solo for many years,
so I can handle myself.
Nikita, what do you want?
I want you to fight.
For me, for us.
I don't need you as my partner in the field.
I need you as my partner in my life.
SO fight.
[BOTH GRUNTING]
Wanna even the Odds?
Whew. Sure.
You want to move on, I understand.
But I will never move on from you.
Nikki, we gotta talk.
Remember when I said
there was nothing better?
No better Options for Michael?
-Yeah.
-Yeah, I lied.
There might be something better.
But it could Open the door
to something a hell of a lot worse.
What does that mean?
What are you talking about?
I'm saying...
...there might be a very real way...
...for Michael to get his hand back.
[English - us - SDH]